Progress Report 2019 Q1 (#99)
citra-emu/citra-web: site/content/entry/citra-progress-report-2019-q1.md

<!--more-->
****
To start off - Back in August, we asked our patrons to vote on what they'd like to see us work on the most and now it's time to review how much progress we've made on everything since then!

{{< figure src="/images/entry/citra-progress-report-2019-q1/patreon.png"
    title="Patreon Poll Results" >}}

## #0 Pokémon X/Y Support

We are just as happy as everyone else to finally have Pokémon X/Y support after so many years!
We didn't include this one in the survey because at the time, we weren't even sure if the long time spent on developing the new audio core code would fix the game.
But all the work wwylele put in paid off, and you can read more about it in the full article [here](https://citra-emu.org/entry/accurate-audio-emulation/).

Also, not mentioned in the article, developers [B3N30](https://github.com/B3n30) and [liushuyu](https://github.com/liushuyu) have put in [extra work](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4508) on the HLE (fast) audio code to support Pokémon X/Y as well.
At first, this new HLE code was using patented decoders that Citra legally could not distribute, making it painfully complex for anyone that wanted to test it out.

> But with way more effort than anyone expected, we were able to modify the HLE code to use Microsoft's [Media Foundation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_Foundation) framework, which allowed us to ship HLE (fast) audio support for Pokémon X/Y without any patent issues.

Reviewer: might as well consider a pic of Pokemon X/Y here?

With some extra research and some help from [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), Tobi was able to work out the differences and bring Amiibo support to Citra in October.
This works by using `Virtual Amiibo` files, which emulates the scanning of them, and to obtain these `Virtual Amiibo` files from your physical amiibo, you can either use [TagMo](https://github.com/HiddenRamblings/TagMo/releases) app for android or a [3DS homebrew](https://github.com/moriczgergo/amibac/releases/) app.

{{< figure src="/images/entry/citra-progress-report-2019-q1/amiibo.png"
    title="Amiibo in Citra" >}}

## #7 [Microphone Support](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4671) by [jroweboy](https://github.com/jroweboy)

Developer [jroweboy](https://github.com/jroweboy) picked up this task back in November, but ran into a roadblock just as he was about to finish it.
There was some bug in the code, due to which games just weren't accepting the mic input, but after reviewing it several times and debugging it, he just couldn't figure out why.

In the past week, [FearlessTobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) took an interest in the code for mic, and decided to try and clean it up a bit.

> During his clean-up, he found that rewriting one part of the code actually fixed it!

Reviewer 2: Well, I fixed the bug while rewriting the "writing to buffer" stuff. Then jrowe found out what my rewrite did differently and was able to fix his code with the information (?). Anyway, I don't think it matters that much how exactly it was fixed so I don't really care about what we put in the report for this now.

* Room Moderation - Verified Room hosts can now perform basic moderation actions in their own rooms. Hosts can now kick or ban a user, and remove bans if needed.
Room bans will ban both the user's Citra Web Services account (if authenticated) and IP address.

* Rooms descriptions - Optionally, you can add a description to your room.
This is accessible both in the UI and on the command line.

* Console ID check - Sometimes multiple Citra users will have the same virtual Console ID - this is not supposed to happen on real consoles, and as such can confuse games a lot.
A Console ID conflict check will be performed and users won't be permitted to join if they have the same Console ID as someone else in the room.

* When the room is full, instead of a general "Unable to connect", a proper Error message will get displayed.

* You can now see info messages like "joined" and "left" in the chat.
Additionally, moderation actions like kicking and banning will also be
shown to all room members.

* User Pinging - You can now ping other users by `@ + Username or Nickname`.

> Pinged users will get a notification on their desktop and the message will be highlighted.

Reviewer: might as well consider adding a pic of the current room chat dialog here, showing the new features?

### [Tabbed Configuration Window](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4187) by [spycrab](https://github.com/spycrab)

With many new features being added to Citra regularly, the old configuration window was getting crammed.
While a vision for a better UI (user interface) existed since the early years of Citra, no actual work was done towards it.

> Upon [jroweboy's](https://github.com/jroweboy) request [spycrab](https://github.com/spycrab), a well known developer from dolphin-emu, undertook the implementation of such an interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon [jroweboy's](https://github.com/jroweboy) request [spycrab](https://github.com/spycrab), a well known developer from Dolphin, undertook the implementation of such an interface.
```

> We plan to improve upon this interface design, to ensure best possible user experience in the future.

Reviewer: this should also get a picture of the new settings dialog to show how beautiful it is :p

{{< figure src="/images/entry/citra-progress-report-2019-q1/mii_data.png"
    title="Open Source Mii Data" >}}

With these, we now have open source implementations of all the necessary system archives except the shared fonts for CHN/KOR/TWN regions.

### Encrypted ROM Support ([#4181](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4181), [#4335](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4335), and [#4348](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4348))

For a long while now, Citra only supported decrypted ROM dumps but not encrypted ones.
Normally, the ROM dumping process would make use of secure keys in the 3DS system and generate decrypted ROMs as output.
But supporting encrypted ROMs meant that we had to first extract these keys from the 3DS and then make Citra use them to read and decrypt encrypted ROMS on-the-fly.

Before we even got to implementing stuff on Citra's end, we had a major obstacle.
Until now, not much research had been done to figure out which keys were needed and how to obtain these keys all together.
Developers [wwylele](https://github.com/wwylele) and [B3N30](https://github.com/B3N30), did the necessary research and slowly implemented support for encrypted ROMs.

> Users can now follow the guide [here](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/wiki/AES-Keys) to obtain these encryption keys, upon which Citra will be able to read encrypted ROMs or install encrypted CIAs directly.

Reviewer: it's probably worthwhile to mention that dumping as decrypted is still recommended for general use

### [New TAS options](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4282) by [zhaowenlan1779](https://github.com/zhaowenlan1779)

To further improve TAS ([Tool-assisted Speedrunning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tool-assisted_speedrun)) on Citra, developer [zhaowenlan1779](https://github.com/zhaowenlan1779) implemented the `Frame Advancing` feature.
Frame advancing is a commonly used TAS feature which basically means running the game frame by frame. TASers use this feature to press exact buttons at the exact frames.
Furthermore, he added a `init time` field to the CTM header, that ensured RNG consistency when replaying a CTM (Citra TAS Movie) file.([here](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4267))

### [citra-qt: Screenshot functionality](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4164) by [zhaowenlan1779](https://github.com/zhaowenlan1779)

In general, people like to share their in-game experiences by means of images, video clips, etc., which require third party tools.
This whole setup can sometimes get confusing and frustrating, as these tools can lead to weird bugs when used in overlay.

> The solution ? adding native screenshot functionality to Citra.

Reviewer: is the space before the `?` intentional?

`libZMQ` also proved to be very buggy and it seemed to be an unnecessarily big dependency for scripting.

Unfortunately, [EverOddish](https://github.com/EverOddish) was very busy with other stuff and couldn't work on rewriting it.
After waiting for a while, [wwylele](https://github.com/wwylele) took over and [reimplemented](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4609) scripting over UDP using the [boost asio library](https://think-async.com/Asio/), thus entirely removing `libZMQ` dependency.

### Status of Official Android App ([#4324](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4324), [#4450](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4450), [#4575](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4575))

When developer SachinVin unofficially ported Citra to Android, our own team members [BreadFish64](https://github.com/BreadFish64) and [jroweboy](https://github.com/jroweboy) were secretly working on an official port.
Since the app was based on a few months old Citra code, it didn't contain many features, fixes, and performance improvements that were present in latest Citra code.

> This unoffical port, also heavily borrowed UI from Dolphin-emu's android app, which didn't fully meet the requirements of Citra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This unoffical port, also heavily borrowed UI from Dolphin's android app, which didn't fully meet the requirements of Citra.
```

However, since then, [BreadFish64](https://github.com/BreadFish64) has been working along with [jroweboy](https://github.com/jroweboy) and [liushuyu](https://github.com/liushuyu), tirelessly to officially port Citra for Android.
Although the app isn't ready for public usage, the work is progressing slowly but surely.

> If any of you out there have professional experience with Android app development, join us on our [discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/FAXfZV9) and let's collaborate.

Reviewer: ditto about the discord link

### [Flatpak Support](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4383) by [bscubed](https://github.com/bscubed)

> As a result of collaboration between developers [Flame Sage](https://github.com/chris062689) and [bscubed](https://github.com/bscubed), we finally have [flatpak](https://flatpak.org/) support for both Citra nightly and Citra Canary builds.

Reviewer 3: > Citra **N**ightly and Citra Canary

For the uninitiated, Flatpak is a system for building, distributing, and running sandboxed desktop applications on Linux.
Flatpak support meant that Citra could now be installed and run on virtually any Linux distribution without running into OS specific issues.

### Conclusion

There's been [other exciting work from many different contributors](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pulls?page=1&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+merged%3A2018-09-14T00%3A00%3A00%2B00%3A00..2019-03-20T00%3A00%3A00%2B00%3A00+sort%3Aupdated-asc&utf8=%E2%9C%93), and we want to thank them all, but writing articles and blog posts is a very time consuming process, and we don't have anyone currently writing!

> If you would like to contribute to the project by joining the writing staff, reach out on the forums or on [Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/FAXfZV9) and show us what you can do.

Reviewer: I would say `Discord` should link to `https://citra-emu.org/discord` instead of a direct invite.

This works by using `Virtual Amiibo` files, which emulates the scanning of them, and to obtain these `Virtual Amiibo` files from your physical amiibo, you can either use [TagMo](https://github.com/HiddenRamblings/TagMo/releases) app for android or a [3DS homebrew](https://github.com/moriczgergo/amibac/releases/).

{{< sidebyside "image" "/images/entry/citra-progress-report-2019-q1/"
    "amiibo.png"
    "amiibo2.png" >}}

***Note: The Amiibo implementation isn't fully complete and needs a bit of work to fix outstanding issues.***

## #7 [Microphone Support](https://github.com/citra-emu/citra/pull/4671) by [jroweboy](https://github.com/jroweboy)

Developer [jroweboy](https://github.com/jroweboy) picked up this task back in November, but ran into a roadblock just as he was about to finish it.
There was some bug in the code, due to which games just weren't accepting the mic input, but after reviewing it several times and debugging it, he just couldn't figure out why.

In the past week, [FearlessTobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) took an interest in the code for mic, and decided to try and clean it up a bit.

> During his clean-up, he found a bug or rather a typo in the code because of which the feature wasn't working.

Reviewer 4: it wasn't a typo. it was just a really dumb mistake that i overlooked. i mixed up bits and bytes when working with the sizeof the mic data, so it wouldn't copy enough data from the mic
